>> Todd Gardner: All right, we're on
the homestretch, folks, homestretch,
last one, let's go, go.
All right, improving INP,
this is our last Core Web Vital and
our last metric that we're gonna focus on.
Improving, Interaction to Next Paint.
What's Interaction to NextPaint?
Remember, this is how quickly
users can interact with your site,
how fast they feel like they can interact.
And let's do a little quick demo,
of how this interaction happens.
Now, one of the things that I've mentioned
a few times through this course is when we
run these profilers, it's not actually
generating INP data because there's not
an interaction as part of just loading
a page, there's nothing being clicked on.
Well, we can generate
different kinds of profiles.
We can run a profile where that's
explicitly what we are measuring.
But what we haven't measured here yet
is INP.
And when we measure INP,
we need to force an interaction,
which doesn't necessarily happen on load.
Now, we can also record a sequence here,
when we're actually interacting,
we don't have to just do this on load.
So I'm gonna go ahead and clear this out,
and I'm gonna just start recording.
Now, this doesn't reload the page, it
just starts recording the page right now.
So now I can go over to the page and I can
click the main button that we're trying to
get users to do, which is Add to Cart.
So I clicked on it, it doesn't
really give the user any feedback,
eventually there's one shows
up here in the corner.
Now I can turn off the profiler and
I can see what exactly is
happening along the way.
So here's everything that happened while
we were recording, so I can go in, and
we can drill into individual user
interactions and see what's going on.
Now, the other thing I
told you is that INP,
you don't necessarily know what
INP is until the end of the page.
The extension will give you a notification
every time there is a bad INP, just so
you know you don't have to force a reload.
And in this particular case,
we see a 1200 millisecond INP,
which is really, really bad.
It's when I clicked on this button,
there was 1200 milliseconds of processing
duration is part of that we
need to look into and fix, and
that's what we're gonna play with next.
So, do you need to worry about this?
Again, look at your data, don't spend
a bunch of time trying to optimize for
IMP if you don't have this problem.
Look at your real data, look at
the CrUX data, and decide whether or
not this is important.
Like CLS, there is one solution to INP,
INP is about one thing, 99% of the time,
1% of the time, there's some other
more advanced techniques that we're
likely gonna cover in the intermediary
web performance, course, but
99% of the time, it's about this,
it's about yielding to the main thread.
What does that mean?
What, that's a big Advanced
Software Engineering kind of word,
what do I mean when I say that?
So here is the code, here's the actual
code behind that click button.
That click button,
we are listening for click events, and
if the click matches a button with Add
to Cart class, we do a few things.
>> Todd Gardner: We grab
the attribute data-product-id, and
we pull it out and
transfer it as an integer.
So now we have a number that represent,
hey,
what product is the user trying to add?
We do a bunch of important analytics
work because tracking analytics from
an e-commerce store, super important.
I wanna know that the user clicked
on these, and then we set up a fetch
request to do a bunch of work,
we await an add to cart to do some stuff.
And that's it, that's all we do.
In response to add to cart, when add to
cart's done, it updates a number, but
the actual click handler,
this is what it does.
So what does that, what does that mean?
Well, so if we were to look at that in a
flame chart, this is what that looks like.
So there's a click event in
response to that click event,
the browser dispatches the click event
in response to the actual interaction.
The browser will dispatch the click event,
and it'll look for
all of the handlers that are listening
to click, and it'll find one.
And then it'll call that function,
and that function is me.
That's that anonymous function
that I bound to click.
That's this, this anonymous function
right here, it found it bound to click.
That anonymous function
calls update analytics, and
update analytics takes forever.
It takes so long, and when it's
finally done, it's basically done, and
then a paint task can
happen to update the UI.
So the Interaction to Next Paint
is all the time between click and
that paint, in our example,
what we're currently at is 1200
milliseconds seconds between
the click to that paint event.
That means for us that update analytics
is taking a really, really long time.
But analytics is important, I'm not
saying you should get rid of analytics.
I'm just saying it's taking a really,
really long time.
We ran our performance thing,
we clicked on the button, we tracked that.
I did this a little out of order,
that's okay, so there's two,
there's a couple of
ways we can solve this.
When I say yield,
that's a big fancy term that doesn't
mean that complicated a thing.
You're probably very
familiar with what this is.
A yield is a set timeout.
We're trying to get out of
the way of the main thread.
The main thread is blocking,
there's only one of them,
it handles all the JavaScript,
all of the events, all the layouts.
We need to get out of its way and
do things later.
So set timeout is the tried and
true way that everybody knows,
everybody who's JavaScript knows,
we've done this a thousand times.
You schedule some code to run in the
future, and you allows other work to run.
Now, the other thing you can do
is called requestAnimationFrame,
which you may not be familiar with,
but it's super powerful here.
And it's a more specific
version of set timeout.
RequestAnimationFrame lets you schedule
code to run just before the next time
the browser would paint.
So the next time the browser should paint,
it can do it,
can give you a callback to say,
hey, do you need to do something?
The reason this exists is for animations,
like high-velocity animations, you're
doing something that's, very multimedia,
very game-like, stuff like that, and
you wanna execute an animation,
this is what you would use for that.
But it's also super valuable for
managing INP, because it lets us control
the timing between the main thread and
when paint happens.
I'm gonna show you how